Vision Transformer Introduction (#380)
johko/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/unit3/vision-transformers/vision-transformers-for-image-classification.mdx

As the Transformers architecture scaled well in Natural Language Processing, the same architecture was applied to images by creating small patches of the image and treating them as tokens. The result was a Vision Transformer (ViT). Before we get started with transfer learning / fine-tuning concepts, let's compare Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) with Vision Transformers.

## Vision Transformer (VT) a Summary

To summarize, in Vision transformer, images are reorganized as 2D grids of patches. The models are trained on those patches!

The main idea can be found at the picture below: 
![Vision Transformer](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/Screenshot%20from%202024-12-27%2014-25-49.png)

> But there is a problem! There are some advantages of using Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)s is that they are designed with some assumptions. They are described in the following section.

Author: inductive bias in CNNs worksas  an advantage.  Rewriting it.

> But there is a problem! There are some advantages of using Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)s is that they are designed with some assumptions. They are described in the following section.

Author: ```suggestion
But there is a catch! The Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN)  are designed with an assumption missing in the VT. This assumption is based on how we perceive the objects in the images as humans. It is described in the following section.
```

> But there is a problem! There are some advantages of using Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)s is that they are designed with some assumptions. They are described in the following section.

Author: updated in https://github.com/huggingface/computer-vision-course/pull/380/commits/d9c1e11fa3d8fd679d6b0c8f2bdef92af40028d4

- Translational Equivariance: an object can appear anywhere in the image, and CNNs can detect its features.
- Locality: pixels in an image interact mainly with its surrounding pixels to form features.

> CNN models are very good at these two biases. VT do not have this assumption!! That is why for dataset size to a certain threshold actually CNN are better than VT ! But VT has another power!

Reviewer: I think I have never seen VT as abbreviation for Vision Transfomers (although it does make sense), only ViT, so I would keep that.
And I think the usage of exclamation marks should be a bit tuned down here ;) 
```suggestion
CNN models are very good at these two biases. ViT do not have this assumption. That is why for a dataset size up to a certain threshold actually CNNs are better than ViT. But ViT has another power!
```

> The transformer architecture being (mostly) different types of linear functions allows VT to become highly scalable. And that in turn allows VT to overcome the problem of not having the above two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transformer architecture being (mostly) different types of linear functions allows ViT to become highly scalable. And that in turn allows ViT to overcome the problem of not having the above two
```

inductive biases with massive ammount of data!

### But how can everyone get access to massive datasets?

> It's not feasible for everyone to train a Vision Transformer on millions of images to get good performance. Instead, one can use open-sourced models from places such as the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/models?sort=trending).

Reviewer: I have to say I liked the old version "openly available" better, because open-sourced is a more specific term and we can always ask - are models whose code we don't know but whose weights we can use open-source? Where does it start, where does it stop?

"openly available" is a bit less loaded with assumptions

Author: updated in https://github.com/huggingface/computer-vision-course/pull/380/commits/d9c1e11fa3d8fd679d6b0c8f2bdef92af40028d4

> It's not feasible for everyone to train a Vision Transformer on millions of images to get good performance. Instead, one can use open-sourced models from places such as the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/models?sort=trending).

Author: ```suggestion
It's not feasible for everyone to train a Vision Transformer on millions of images to get good performance. Instead, one can use openly available model weights from places such as the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/models?sort=trending).
```
